Update to napari viewer tutorial. (#65)
napari/docs: docs/tutorials/fundamentals/viewer.md

---

# napari viewer tutorial

+++
</br>

Welcome to the tutorial on the **napari** viewer!

This tutorial assumes you have already installed **napari** and know how to
launch the viewer. For help with installation see our
[installation](./installation) tutorial. For help launching the
viewer see our [getting started](./getting_started) tutorial.

This tutorial will teach you about the **napari** viewer, including how to use
its graphical user interface (GUI) and how the data within it is organized. At
the end of the tutorial you should understand the both the layout of the viewer
on the screen and the data inside of it.
This tutorial assumes you have already installed **napari** and know how to launch the viewer. For help with installation see our [installation](./installation) tutorial. For help launching the viewer see our [getting started](./getting_started) tutorial.

> +++

Reviewer: As a general suggestion, it would be helpful to not remove these markups when they appear. These documents are meant to be used in two different ways - as pure markdown files, and as jupyter notebooks. This markup is here to split the content into separate text cells in the final notebook, so even if it doesn't show up in the rendered html output, it is usually helpful to guarantee a better organization and flow for jupyter notebooks.

> **Note:** There is also an IPython console available in napari which you can open with the iPython console button (far left viewer button) or with the menu option **Window** > **console**. You can use this console to programmatically interact with an open viewer using the API methods illustrated in this tutorial.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** There is also an IPython console available in napari, when napari is launched from the terminal, from a Python script, or when you use the napari bundled app. You can open it with the IPython console button (far left viewer button) or with the menu option **Window** > **console**. You can use this console to programmatically interact with an open viewer using the API methods illustrated in this tutorial.    
```

The fastest way to open a viewer with an image on the canvas is using {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>`:

> ```{code-cell} python  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
```

from skimage import data

> import napari  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import napari
```

viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(data.astronaut(), rgb=True)
```  

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

viewer.close()

> ```

Reviewer: This change is causing the `viewer.close()` cell to not be hidden appropriately - the `:tags: [remove-cell]` markup needs to be restored to its own line.

Author: Melissa, When I had it on it's own line, it showed up on the screen.

Reviewer: That is unexpected - I can't reproduce this locally unfortunately...

Author: Thank you for showing me how to view the html rendering.

---

# napari viewer tutorial
</br>

Welcome to the tutorial on the **napari** viewer!

This tutorial assumes you have already installed **napari** and know how to launch the viewer. For help with installation see our [installation](./installation) tutorial. For help launching the viewer see our [getting started](./getting_started) tutorial.

This tutorial will teach you about the **napari** viewer, including how to use its graphical user interface (GUI) and how the data within it is organized. At the end of the tutorial, you should understand both the layout of the viewer on the screen and the data inside of it.  
</br>

## Launching the viewer

> As discussed in the [getting started](./getting_started) tutorial, the napari viewer can be launched from the command-line, a python script, an IPython console, or a Jupyter notebook. All four methods launch the same viewer, and anything related to interacting with the viewer on the screen applies equally to all of them. We will use the syntax for running the code inside a jupyter notebook with each code block below pasted into its own cell, but if you'd like to use a python script instead, simply copy and paste the code blocks into scripts with [napari.run()](https://napari.org/stable/api/napari.html#napari.run) as the final line (this starts an event loop which will 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As discussed in the [getting started](./getting_started) tutorial, the napari viewer can be launched from the command-line, a python script, an IPython console, or a Jupyter notebook. All four methods launch the same viewer, and anything related to interacting with the viewer on the screen applies equally to all of them. We will use the syntax for running the code inside a jupyter notebook with each code block below pasted into its own cell, but if you'd like to use a python script instead, simply copy and paste the code blocks into scripts with [`napari.run()`](https://napari.org/stable/api/napari.html#napari.run) as the final line (this starts an event loop which will 
```
I think using the backticks for code makes this clearer.

Author: I agree but this one is a link.  I tried putting the back ticks in the [ ]s and it still just looked like a link.  I put them outside the [ ]s, and in front of the [ and after the ).  When I did this they just showed in the text.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it is a link, but also a code command. I thought I tested it and the rendering look different with the backticks inside the [] than a regular link—like the font is changed at least 🤷‍♂️

Author: Ok.  I changed it.

open an interactive viewer) and run them.  

**Note:** There is also an IPython console available in napari which you can open with the  

>         iPython console button (far left viewer button) or with the menu option **Window** > **console**. You can use this console to programmatically interact with an open viewer using the API methods illustrated in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** There is also an IPython console available in napari, when napari is launched from the terminal or from a Python script. You can open it with the iPython console button (far left viewer button) or with the menu option **Window** > **console**. You can use this console to programmatically interact with the open viewer using the API methods illustrated in 
```

Author: The console is available when napari is launched from the Windows start button as well. I will look for a way to test it and see if it is available when started from any method.

Reviewer 2: Oh yeah, my bad. I forgot the console also works when using the bundle.
Should say:
There is also an IPython console available in napari, when napari is launched from the terminal, from a Python script, or when you use the napari bundled app.

Reviewer 2: I added a new suggestion for this.

        this tutorial.  

Let's get started by launching a viewer with a simple 2D image.  

The fastest way to open a viewer with an image on the canvas is using {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>`:

> ```{code-cell} python  

Reviewer 2: Any idea why this code cell doesn't have syntax highlighting?
It does in the live 0.4.17 docs, but not here:
<img width="771" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76622105/208295508-078ac684-36f5-4d36-8deb-fae95c15567f.png">

Reviewer 2: Actually it's all of the code blocks. Maybe @melissawm has some ideas?

Reviewer: Here's the short version: Even though ipython is installed with "python -m pip install -r requirements.txt" when the Build Docs workflow is triggered, something is wrong (unfortunately I don't understand why). On my local machine, installing ipython with conda, in the same environment, solves this problem. Now, I'm not sure what the right solution for this is, since all the other requirements are installed using pip inside of conda. I suspect this (mixing pip and conda) is also the source of a few other problems, such as not being able to build the docs with python=3.10, but that can be discussed separately.

Reviewer 2: FYI, it has the proper highlighting for me now when downloading the built artifact.

Author: Fantastic!

viewer = napari.Viewer()
new_layer = viewer.add_image(data.astronaut(), rgb=True)
```

> {meth}[`add_image<napari.components.viewer_model.ViewerModel.add_image>`](https://napari.org/stable/api/napari.components.ViewerModel.html?highlight=add_image#napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image) accepts the same arguments as {func}`imshow<napari.show>` but only returns an {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer instead of both the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` and {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer (as you must already have a viewer to use it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{meth}`add_image<napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image>` accepts the same arguments as {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>` but only returns an {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer instead of both the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` and {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer (as you must already have a viewer to use it).
```

Hard-coding the link to the {meth} makes a graphical artifact:
<img width="760" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76622105/211203076-f004f995-2c60-4dad-ac87-04de2e43a641.png">

I think I've fixed both the `{meth}` and `{func}imshow`

After running either of those two commands, you should be able to see the photograph of the astronaut in the **napari** viewer as shown below:

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

from napari.utils import nbscreenshot

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="photograph of an astronaut in napari viewer")
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

viewer.close()
```

>  {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>` and the {meth}`add_image<napari.components.viewer_model.ViewerModel.add_image>` methods accept any numpy-array like object as input, including n-dimensional arrays. For more information on adding images to the viewer see the [image layer guide](../../howtos/layers/image). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>` and the {meth}`add_image<napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image>` methods accept any numpy-array like object as input, including n-dimensional arrays. For more information on adding images to the viewer see the [image layer guide](../../howtos/layers/image). 
```

trying to fix the method here too.

Now we will continue exploring the rest of the viewer.

## Layout of the viewer

The viewer is organized into a few key areas which are explained in the next sections:
* Main Menu (top bar menu)
* Layer Controls
* Layer Buttons
* Layer List
* Viewer Buttons
* Status Bar
* Canvas
* Dimension Sliders
* Scroll Buttons
* Frame Playback  

The image below has the areas of the viewer labeled: 

>   ![image: viewer layout](../assets/tutorials/Viewer-with-arrows.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![image: viewer layout](../assets/tutorials/Viewer-with-arrows.png)
```

![image: View Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-view.png)    
    </br>
  

* **Window** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Window Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-window.png)    
    </br>

* **Plugins** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Plugins Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-plugins.png)    
    </br>

* **Help** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Help Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-help.png)    
    </br>

### Canvas

The **canvas** is in the center of the viewer and contains the visual display of the data passed to **napari**, including `images`, `point`, `shapes`, and other supported data types. Under the hood, the canvas is a `vispy.scene.SceneCanvas` object which has built-in support for features such as zooming and panning. As `vispy` uses `OpenGL` and your graphics card, panning and zooming are highly performant. You can return to the original zoom level by clicking the `home` button in the viewer buttons panel.

![image: pan and zoom with napari](../assets/tutorials/viewer_pan_zoom.webm) 

(layer_list)=
### Layer list

> Layers are one of the basic napari objects. There are different layer types for `image`, `points`, `shapes`, and other data types. They can be added to the viewer either programmatically or through the GUI. Once added, they  populate the layer list located on the bottom left side of the canvas.

Reviewer 2: Now that we are referring to specific layer types, I think they should be capitalized to be consistent with other docs. Scroll down to Layer controls for example.

Author: I will change these.

The layer list contains one widget for each of the layers that have been added to the viewer and includes a `thumbnail` that shows a miniaturized version of the currently viewed data, a `name` that is an editable text box, a `visibility` button that can be toggled on or off to show or hide the layer, and an `icon` for the layer type.  

Adding the following three image layers using the code below adds three-layer widgets to the layer list as follows:  

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-output]  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-output]  

```

new_layer = viewer.add_image(data.astronaut(), rgb=True)
```

> {meth}`add_image<napari.components.viewer_model.ViewerModel.add_image>` accepts the same arguments as {func}`imshow<napari.show>` but only returns an {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer instead of both the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` and {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer (as you must already have a viewer to use it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{meth}`add_image<napari.components.viewer_model.ViewerModel.add_image>` accepts the same arguments as {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>` but only returns an {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer instead of both the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` and {class}`Image<napari.layers.Image>` layer (as you must already have a viewer to use it).
```

Reviewer 2: Also: Why does `{meth}` not make a link like {class} and {func}? Or should we just replace {meth} with func? The `add_image` should link to:
docs/api/napari.components.ViewerModel.html?highlight=add_image#napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image

Author: You mean this link, https://napari.org/stable/api/napari.components.ViewerModel.html?highlight=add_image#napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image, correct?

Reviewer 2: Yup! Not sure why it doesn't link with {meth}. Maybe @melissawm knows?

Author: The back-ticks were in the wrong place.  It should be fixed now.

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]
viewer.close()
```

 {func}`imshow<napari.imshow>` and the {meth}`add_image<napari.components.ViewerModel.add_image>` methods accept any numpy-array like object as input, including n-dimensional arrays. For more information on adding images to the viewer see the [image layer guide](../../howtos/layers/image). 

Now we will continue exploring the rest of the viewer.  

+++

## Layout of the viewer

The viewer is organized into a few key areas which are explained in the next sections:
* Main Menu (top bar menu)
* Layer Controls
* Layer Buttons
* Layer List
* Viewer Buttons
* Status Bar
* Canvas
* Dimension Sliders
* Scroll Buttons
* Frame Playback  

The image below has the areas of the viewer labeled: 

  ![image: viewer layout](../assets/tutorials/Viewer-with-arrows.png)

We'll go through each of these in the next sections.

> ### Main menu or top bar menu

Reviewer 2: I still don't like these obvious screenshots with no extra info (or even alt text).
Again my vote would be to nuke this section.
CC: @jni @melissawm

Author: Peter, the goal is to flesh them out later.

Reviewer 3: I think +1 here, if we're providing details further down, we should present these screenshots there. I think the top bar menu is too standard a feature to highlight its structure to this degree. Definitely understand the importance of explaining the different napari-specific options, but I think this section should be removed.

Author: The idea is to fill in more information on these menus at a later date.  I'll talk to Dannielle and see what she thinks.

Author: I removed the screenshots and summarized each of the top-bar menus.  If this is still too much (and Dannielle is agreeable) I will delete the section on the top-bar menu.

* Canvas
* Dimension Sliders
* Scroll Buttons
* Frame Playback  

The image below has the areas of the viewer labeled: 

![image: viewer layout](../assets/tutorials/Viewer-with-arrows.png)

We'll go through each of these in the next sections.

### Main menu or top bar menu

The main menu consists of the **File**, **View**, **Window**, **Plugins**, and **Help** options.  

* **File** has the options to open files, folders, and samples, save layers and screenshots,copy screenshots to clipboard and, in the Windows version, preferences. 

    All the options on the **File** menu are relatively self-explanatory except **Preferences** on the Windows version of napari. **Preferences** allows you to personalize napari to some degree. To learn more about the **Preferences** menu, there is a tutorial designed for developers [here](https://napari.org/stable/guides/preferences.html).  
 
    **Note:** In macOS, **Preferences** is under the napari menu.   
       

* **View** allows you to toggle full screen, the menu bar, play, display axes, the scale bar, tooltips, and the activity dock. 

* **Window** allows you to open the integrated console, display the layer controls and layer list.  

> * **Plugins** allows you to manage plugins and displays a list of plugins that are currently installed.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Plugins** allows you to install and manage plugins and displays a list of plugins that are currently installed.  
```

> * **Help** contains the citation and about information.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Help** contains the citation and about information, along with links to documentation..
```

Author: I don't see any links to docs in my help option.  I'm on Windows though.  Are you on Mac?

Author: I don't have any links to documentation in napari under help.  Is it because I'm on Windows and not Mac?

Reviewer 2: Oh sorry I wasn't clear: those elements of the Help menu are merged, but not released yet! PR: https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/5399
Here's how it looks (everything is a weblink)
<img width="388" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76622105/221937938-611ad7ad-0d80-4a74-ac43-e2aa404526f2.png">

So they should be added to docs now; they will end up in the `dev` or `latest` version in the switcher, but then when the napari release goes live, they will be in the `stable` docs.

Author: Thanks.  I'll look into it.

Now we will continue exploring the rest of the viewer.

## Layout of the viewer

The viewer is organized into a few key areas which are explained in the next sections:
* Main Menu (top bar menu)
* Layer Controls
* Layer Buttons
* Layer List
* Viewer Buttons
* Status Bar
* Canvas
* Dimension Sliders
* Scroll Buttons
* Frame Playback  

The image below has the areas of the viewer labeled: 

  ![image: viewer layout](../assets/tutorials/Viewer-with-arrows.png)

We'll go through each of these in the next sections.

### Main menu or top bar menu

The main menu consists of the **File**, **View**, **Window**, **Plugins**, and **Help** options which are illustrated in this section.  

* **File** contains the options shown in the graphic below: 
![image: File Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-file.png)  

    All the options on the **File** menu are self-explanatory except **Preferences**. **Preferences** has the options shown below. To learn more about the **Preferences** menu, visit this [tutorial](https://napari.org/stable/guides/preferences.html).  

>     ![image: Preferences sub-menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-file-sub-menu-preferences.png)  

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how helpful this is, especially since the Preferences link isn't a user-facing tutorial but rather dev/API centric documentation.
Note, there is an open issue about this:
https://github.com/napari/docs/issues/13

Author: Thank you for telling me about this issue.  The reason **Preferences** is mentioned is because we talk about setting the theme. In my opinion this whole tutorial is developer centric.  We are just beginning to introduce the GUI here.  A future edition is planned that will separate the GUI technique from the developer centric technique.  But that is just one of many priorities. (No date has been established for it yet.)

Author: The theme is mentioned under the heading, Changing the viewer theme.

Reviewer 2: I would still delete. 
I feel that *this* Viewer tutorial is very user-centric, which is good.
That Preferences guide is for devs, so it's really not appropriate to link here as a **tutorial** which suggests it's similar to the current document.
We can explicitly mention the File menu when mentioning the theme in that section (if we already are not).

Reviewer 2: BTW, on macOS preferences are under the napari menu and not File. Not sure about linux.

Author: Thanks.  I'm still looking at this.

Author: See what you think of the new wording.

    </br>
    

* **View** contains the options shown in the graphic below:  
![image: View Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-view.png)    
    </br>
  

* **Window** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Window Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-window.png)    
    </br>

* **Plugins** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Plugins Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-plugins.png)    
    </br>

* **Help** contains the options shown in the graphic below:   
![image: Help Menu](../assets/tutorials/main-menu-help.png)    

>     </br>

Reviewer 2: IMO if these are just going to be screenshots of menus with no explanations then they serve no purpose? The user can see those menus in their own system and the concept of there being menus isn't novel or unique to napari.

Author: @dgmccart What do you think?  Should I take them out?  I thought they added some general information for the novice user.

Reviewer 2: I think even the most novice user will be familiar with menu concepts, so screenshots alone with no explanations arn't really helpful.
If we want to keep them, then I think the purpose of each menu and what can be found there should be explained, with key items highlighted.
For example for File we could mentionthat it's for file i/o but also contains the screenshot feature, which can be used to save an image of the whole viewer or just the canvas.

### Canvas

> The **canvas** is in the center of the viewer and contains the visual display of the data passed to **napari**, including images, point, shapes, and other supported data types. Under the hood the canvas is a `vispy.scene.SceneCanvas` object which has built-in support for features such as zooming and panning. As `vispy` uses `OpenGL` and your graphics card, panning and zooming are highly performant. You can return to the original zoom level by clicking the `home` button in the viewer buttons panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **canvas** is in the center of the viewer and contains the visual display of the data passed to **napari**, including `Image`, `Points`, `Shapes`, and other supported data types. Under the hood, the canvas is a `vispy.scene.SceneCanvas` object which has built-in support for features such as zooming and panning. As `vispy` uses `OpenGL` and your graphics card, panning and zooming are highly performant. You can return to the original zoom level by clicking the `home` button in the viewer buttons panel.
```

Author: images, points, and shapes are not capitalized because they are not capitalized in napari and I thought it best to be consistent with the interface. I added the back ticks and the comma, as you suggested.  (You are doing a great job of going over these docs.  This is great feedback.)

Reviewer 2: I guess the question is are we using the terms generically or specific to napari layers.
In other docs, like the getting started guide, when referring to layers, they are capitalized. Even in this one, if you scroll down to Layer controls.

![image: pan and zoom with napari](../assets/tutorials/viewer_pan_zoom.webm) 

(layer_list)=
### Layer list

> One of the basic napari objects is layers. There are different layer types for `Image`, `Points`, `Shapes`, and other data types. They can be added to the viewer either programmatically or through the GUI. Once added they start to populate the layer list located on the bottom left side of the canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Layers are one of the basic napari objects. There are different layer types for `Image`, `Points`, `Shapes`, and other data types. They can be added to the viewer either programmatically or through the GUI. Once added, they start to populate the layer list located on the bottom left side of the canvas.
```

Author: Thanks.  I love the way you re-worded that first sentence.

viewer.add_image(data.camera(), name='camera')
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="3 image layers shown in napari viewer with the canvas displaying a photograph of a man looking through a camcorder")
```

Note that we've also named each of the layers using the `name` keyword argument in {meth}`add_image<napari.components.viewer_model.ViewerModel.add_image>`, and that name appears as a string in the layer widget. The layer name is coerced into being unique so it can be used to index into the `LayerList`.

You can select layers, which highlights them, by clicking on their layer widget. Multiple layers can be simultaneously selected using either `shift` click to select all the layers in between two clicked-on layers or `Ctrl`+click (Windows) or `Command`+click to select just the clicked on layers respectively. 

You can rearrange the order of the layers by dragging them, including dragging multiple layers at the same time.

> The `Viewer` object also contains the `LayerList` object that allows access to the data of all the layers by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

duplicated with below?

Reviewer 2: Bump, this duplication is still present.

Reviewer 2: <img width="787" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76622105/211204691-e8ad94a4-5564-48cb-a380-9b0764bf1fde.png">

You can rearrange layers by clicking and dragging them.

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

viewer.close()
```

### Layer controls

Above the **layer list** in the top left corner of the viewer there is a box that contains the layer controls. The controls that are available depend on the layer type selected.

For example, if you add a `Points` layer after adding an `Image` layer, the new `Points` layer will be 'selected' and you will now see different controls present.

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-output]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-output]

```

import numpy as np
from skimage import data

import napari

viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(data.astronaut(), rgb=True)  
points = np.array([[100, 100], [200, 200], [300, 100]])  

> viewer.add_points(points, size=30)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(data.astronaut(), rgb=True)
points = np.array([[100, 100], [200, 200], [300, 100]])
viewer.add_points(points, size=30)
```

```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="points layer showing 3 white points layered on top of astronaut image in napari viewer")
```
 
Adjusting these properties in the layers list will cause corresponding changes to properties on the selected individual layers. These properties can also be changed and accessed in the console through `viewer.layers`.  

For example, the name and opacity of a layer can be changed within the console as follows:

```python
viewer.layers[0].name = 'astronaut'
viewer.layers[0].opacity = 0.7
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

:tags: [hide-input]
nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="points layer showing 3 white points layered on top of astronaut image in napari viewer")
```
   
+++  

Adjusting these properties in the layers list will cause corresponding changes to properties on the selected individual layers. These properties can also be changed and accessed in the console through `viewer.layers`.  

For example, the name and opacity of a layer can be changed within the console as follows:

+++

```{code-cell} python
viewer.layers[0].name = 'astronaut'
viewer.layers[0].opacity = 0.7
```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]
viewer.close()
```

and these changes will instantly propagate to the GUI. For more information about the different properties for different layer types please see our layer specific tutorials listed at the bottom of this tutorial. 

+++

### Create Layer buttons

> New `Points`, `Shapes`, and `Labels` layers can be added to the viewer using the layer buttons between the layer controls and layer list. These correspond to the following calls:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New empty `Points`, `Shapes`, and `Labels` layers can be added to the viewer using the layer buttons between the layer controls and layer list. This is equivalent to, for example, the following code to make an empty `Points` layer:
```
Let's work around the error with `add_labels` by just making the example code make a Points layer. I can't imagine anyone writing any code like this, so it's just a conceptual thing: code can be done by GUI.

So below, delete:
```
viewer.add_shapes()
viewer.add_labels()
```

Author: Done

:tags: [hide-input]
nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="points layer showing 3 white points layered on top of astronaut image in napari viewer")
```
   
+++  

Adjusting these properties in the layers list will cause corresponding changes to properties on the selected individual layers. These properties can also be changed and accessed in the console through `viewer.layers`.  

For example, the name and opacity of a layer can be changed within the console as follows:

+++

```{code-cell} python
viewer.layers[0].name = 'astronaut'
viewer.layers[0].opacity = 0.7
```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]
viewer.close()
```

and these changes will instantly propagate to the GUI. For more information about the different properties for different layer types please see our layer specific tutorials listed at the bottom of this tutorial. 

+++

### Create Layer buttons

New `Points`, `Shapes`, and `Labels` layers can be added to the viewer using the layer buttons between the layer controls and layer list. These correspond to the following calls:

> ```{code-cell} python

Reviewer: If we do
```suggestion
```python
```
that would work with no errors. But I agree with @psobolewskiPhD that this may be best removed.

Author: The {code-cell} statement is what makes the green highlight appear on the left side.  It works in other docs, I can't see why it's not working here.

Reviewer: It doesn't work because this code is not supposed to be run - it's an incomplete example. Whenever you use "python" here, this means "print this text verbatim, using python syntax highlighting". If you use "code-cell" it means "run this code as a standalone program and show me any outputs". This is why this cell is generating an error below, and subsequently causing other cells not to execute properly.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense, but let's please delete:
```
viewer.add_shapes()
viewer.add_labels()
```
as per my earlier comment. I can't make a suggestion for these code lines.
This way we don't show something that doesn't actually work (`viewer.add_labels()`)

Reviewer: Ok - here's the update:

The above commands all work on a napari console, but not directly from an ipython console. Possible solutions:

1. Change the text to read
````
New empty `Points`, `Shapes`, and `Labels` layers can be added to the viewer using the layer
buttons between the layer controls and layer list. This is equivalent to, for example, the following
code in the napari console to make an empty `Points` layer:

```python
viewer.add_points()
```

```{note}
The above command will only work on a napari console. If you are running a script or typing these
commands on an ipython console, you will need to provide a `data` argument to the
`viewer.add_points` command. See the :func:`napari.viewer.add_points` documentation for more
details.
```

Once added, either in the GUI or via the console, these layers become accessible in the layers list
section of the GUI and at `viewer.layers`.
````

2. Delete this information entirely. I think this is misleading - how many people will bump into this exact behavior and not understand that you can have different requirements depending on which console you are calling these commands from?
3. Do 1., but expand this text to explain WHY this happens

Personally I'd lean into 1, and do 3 on a follow-up. What do you think @psobolewskiPhD?

Reviewer 2: @melissawm It's just `add_labels` that requires `data`. 
Here's copy paste from ipython:
```
In [2]: import napari

In [3]: viewer = napari.Viewer()

In [4]: viewer.add_points()
Out[4]: <Points layer 'Points' at 0x1068904c0>

In [5]: viewer.add_shapes()
Out[5]: <Shapes layer 'Shapes' at 0x179c847f0>
```
For me, all of the above works in ipython and in the napari-console in 0.4.17 and on main.

So the Note isn't needed.

In general, I'm not sure how likely anyone is to programmatically call those, but I think the point here is just to show that everything the GUI does is doing something that one could do code. So it's more about the concept.

BTW, on that note, maybe make that last sentance:
```
Once added, either in the GUI or via the console, these layers become accessible in the layers list section of the GUI and in `viewer.layers`. 
For example, the empty Points layer created above can be accessed using `viewer.layers['Points']`.
```

Reviewer 2: If this is just an example, maybe the code block should do away with the boiler plate?
Just be:
```
viewer.add_points()
```

Adding data with a dimensionality greater than 2D will cause dimension sliders to appear directly underneath the canvas and above the status bar. As many sliders as needed will appear to ensure the data can be fully browsed. For example, a 3D dataset needs one slider, a 4D dataset needs two sliders, and so on. The widths of the scroll bars of the dimension sliders are directly related to how many slices are in each dimension.

It is also possible to mix data of different shapes and dimensionality in different layers. If a 2D and 4D dataset are both added to the viewer then the sliders will affect only the 4D dataset, the 2D dataset will remain the 
same. Effectively, the two datasets are broadcast together using [NumPy broadcasting rules](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/basics.broadcasting.html).

For example, the following commands from the console will add both 2D and 3D datasets to the same viewer:

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-output]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-output]

```

viewer.add_labels()
```

> but with empty data. Once added, either in the GUI or via the console, these layers become accessible in the layers list section of the GUI and at `viewer.layers`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once added, either in the GUI or via the console, these layers become accessible in the layers list section of the GUI and at `viewer.layers`.
```
I mention that the layer is empty above, so here can delete.

Author: Done.

Layers can be deleted by selecting them and clicking on the trash icon, or by dragging the layers and dropping them into the trash.

In the console a layer at index `i` can be removed by:

> ```{code-cell} python

Reviewer: This needs to be changed back - it is not supposed to be executed. And this is what was preventing the other screenshots from being created 🎉 
```suggestion
```python
```

> viewer.add_labels()

Reviewer 2: This one actually raises an error:
```
TypeError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
Cell In[16], line 6
      4 viewer.add_points()
      5 viewer.add_shapes()
----> 6 viewer.add_labels()

TypeError: add_labels() missing 1 required positional argument: 'data'
```
I'm not sure why at the moment, because the button does work, so this is a case where the GUI and code diverge for some reason—probably due to the fact that the size/dimenions of the labels would be undefined, while I guess the button makes an assumption.

Author: I don't know how to correct the code or really even what the problem is.  I get the error on viewer.add_labels() also, as follows: 
TypeError: add_labels() missing 1 required positional argument: 'data'

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I don't think there is any easy solution. 
This is a case where the code approach and GUI diverge.
The UI button is passing some sort of data to the `add_labels` method, while `viewer.add_labels()` obviously doesn't.
The other two layer types are fine without data though, so maybe this behavior is a bug?
Maybe @jni or @DragaDoncila have some ideas how to proceed?

Adding data with a dimensionality greater than 2D will cause dimension sliders to appear directly underneath the canvas and above the status bar. As many sliders as needed will appear to ensure the data can be fully browsed. For example, a 3D dataset needs one slider, a 4D dataset needs two sliders, and so on. The widths of the scroll bars of the dimension sliders are directly related to how many slices are in each dimension.

It is also possible to mix data of different shapes and dimensionality in different layers. If a 2D and 4D dataset are both added to the viewer then the sliders will affect only the 4D dataset, the 2D dataset will remain the 
same. Effectively, the two datasets are broadcast together using [NumPy broadcasting rules](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/basics.broadcasting.html).  

For example, the following commands from the console will add both 2D and 3D datasets to the same viewer:

> ```{code-cell} python  

Reviewer 2: Should the tag be removed here? It's present in the other example above (astronaut & points)

Author: Removed 
:tags: [remove-output]
```{code-cell} python

Reviewer 2: No what I mean is I think the tag removal should be reverted, so maybe the screenshot shows up?
Basically have the code back to:
```
```{code-cell} python
 :tags: [remove-output]
```

Author: It doesn't seem to matter as far as the image is concerned.  I'm meeting with @melissawm tomorrow.  Maybe we can figure it out.

Adding data with a dimensionality greater than 2D will cause dimension sliders to appear directly underneath the canvas and above the status bar. As many sliders as needed will appear to ensure the data can be fully browsed. For example, a 3D dataset needs one slider, a 4D dataset needs two sliders, and so on. The widths of the scroll bars of the dimension sliders are directly related to how many slices are in each dimension.

It is also possible to mix data of different shapes and dimensionality in different layers. If a 2D and 4D dataset are both added to the viewer then the sliders will affect only the 4D dataset, the 2D dataset will remain the 
same. Effectively, the two datasets are broadcast together using [NumPy broadcasting rules](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/basics.broadcasting.html).  

For example, the following commands from the console will add both 2D and 3D datasets to the same viewer:

> ```{code-cell} python  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-output]
```

    * All other properties, such as **Scale** and **Translate** will be propagated from the original stack.   
* **Merge to Stack** - combines a set of layers to a single-layer stack. The resulting layer stack will contain the layers with their original ordering in the layer list. Layers must be of the same type (e.g. An **Image** layer can be merged only with other **Image** layers.) and must have the same dimensionality.  (e.g. a 1024 x 1024 layer can only be merged with another 1024 x 1024 layer.)
* **Link Layers** - links the selected layers.  Once layers are linked, any action performed on one layer will be performed on all linked layers at the same time. The layer control panel will show _only_ when a single layer is selected. Changing properties with that layer's control panel will change properties in all of the linked layers.  
* **Unlink Layers** - appears when layers are linked. It unlinks the layers so that changes to one of the layer's properties no longer result in the same changes to the previously linked layers. 
* **Select Linked Layers** - appears only when layers are linked. Selects all layers linked to a given layer.  

 
## Changing the viewer theme

> Currently, **napari** comes with `light`, `dark` themes for the viewer;  the default is `dark`. Additionally, there is the `system` virtual theme that will attempt to match the viewer theme (`light` or `dark`) to your system theme on macOS, Windows, and some Linux. To change the theme, go to **File**>**Preferences**>**Appearance**. You can also update the `theme` property of the viewer by using the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, **napari** comes with `light`, `dark` themes for the viewer;  the default is `dark`. Additionally, there is the `system` virtual theme that will attempt to match the viewer theme (`light` or `dark`) to your system theme on macOS, Windows, and some Linux. To change the preferred theme used for all viewers you can use the **Preferences** menu item in the **File** or **napari** menu and then select the **Appearance** tab. You can also change the `theme` property of the *current* viewer by using the following code:
```

Update for the merged PR: https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/5143

viewer.add_image(blobs, name='blobs', opacity=0.5, colormap='red')
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A 2d view of the moon on top of which is overlaid a 3d volume containing blobs through which you can navigate using the dimension slider.")
```

In order to get or update the current position of the slider, use:

```python

> # to get the current position  
> viewer.dims.current_step  
> # to change the current position  
> viewer.dims.current_step = 3  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# to get the current position
viewer.dims.current_step
# to change the current position
viewer.dims.current_step = 3
```

### Viewer buttons

Below the **layer list** there is a row of buttons. 
* Console
* 2D/3D
* Roll Dimensions
* Transpose Dimensions
* Grid display
* Home

![image: Viewer buttons](../assets/tutorials/viewer-buttons.png)

Each one is explained below.   

The first button on the left end of the row is the `Console` button. It shows or hides the console and allows you to interact with the python kernel. Inside the console, for example, you can access the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` instance using the `viewer` argument.  

This button is enabled if you launch napari from the command line, a script, or use the napari bundled app. The console is disabled if the napari viewer is opened from a Jupyter notebook or launched from within IPython, in favor of the user
continuing to use the existing interactive console.

The console (when available) appears at the bottom of the viewer as shown:   

![image: console within napari](../assets/tutorials/console.png)

The second button from the left is the 2D/3D button which toggles between `2D` and `3D` renderings of the data. Run the following code:

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-output]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-output]

```

from skimage import data
from scipy import ndimage as ndi

import napari

blobs = data.binary_blobs(length=128, volume_fraction=0.1, n_dim=3)  
viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(blobs.astype(float), name='blobs')

> labeled = ndi.label(blobs)[0]  
> viewer.add_labels(labeled, name='blob ID')  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
labeled = ndi.label(blobs)[0]
viewer.add_labels(labeled, name='blob ID')
```

```

then, by clicking the 2D/3D button, you can rotate the image (the camera view of the image) with the mouse to see what it looks like from the side, back, or a different angle. To do this, click on the image and drag the cursor to a new position. This gives something like the following view: 

![image: 3D_button](../assets/tutorials/3D_button.png)

and rotating the camera view with the mouse gives something like the following view:

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A 2d view of the moon on top of which is overlaid a 3d volume containing blobs through which you can navigate using the dimension slider.")
```

In order to get or update the current position of the slider, use:

> ```{code-cell} python

Reviewer: This also needs to be changed back. Again, it is not supposed to be executed.
```suggestion
```python
```

> nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A 2d view of the moon on top of which is overlaid a 3d volume containing blobs through which you can navigate using the dimension slider.")

Reviewer 2: This screenshot isn't showing in the built docs—I think it could bebecause of the tag being removed, above.

Author: We will soon see. Thanks, Peter.

Reviewer 2: Still not showing for me 😢

Author: I'll ask @melissawm

### Viewer buttons

Below the **layer list** there is a row of buttons. 
* Console
* 2D/3D
* Roll Dimensions
* Transpose Dimensions
* Grid display
* Home

![image: Viewer buttons](../assets/tutorials/viewer-buttons.png)

Each one is explained below.   

The first button on the left end of the row is the `Console` button. It shows or hides the console and allows you to interact with the python kernel. Inside the console, for example, you can access the {class}`Viewer<napari.Viewer>` instance using the `viewer` argument.  

This button is enabled if you launch napari from the command line, a script, or use the napari bundled app. The console is disabled if the napari viewer is opened from a Jupyter notebook or launched from within IPython, in favor of the user
continuing to use the existing interactive console.

The console (when available) appears at the bottom of the viewer as shown:   

![image: console within napari](../assets/tutorials/console.png)

> The second button from the left is the 2D/3D button which toggles between `2D` and `3D` renderings. Run the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second button from the left is the 2D/3D button which toggles between `2D` and `3D` renderings of the data. Run the following code:
```

* **Unlink Layers** - appears when layers are linked. It unlinks the layers so that changes to one of the layer's properties no longer result in the same changes to the previously linked layers. 
* **Select Linked Layers** - appears only when layers are linked. Selects all layers linked to a given layer.  

+++

## Changing the viewer theme

Currently, **napari** comes with `light`, `dark` themes for the viewer;  the default is `dark`. Additionally, there is the `system` virtual theme that will attempt to match the viewer theme (`light` or `dark`) to your system theme on macOS, Windows, and some Linux. To change the preferred theme used for all viewers you can use the **Preferences** menu item in the **File** or **napari** menu and then select the **Appearance** tab. You can also change the `theme` property of the *current* viewer by using the following code:

> ```{code-cell} python  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python 
:tags: [remove-output]
```
Lets try adding that tag to this, so maybe the screenshot shows up.

Author: It wasn't that way in the version I downloaded.  I don't know why it is not showing up anymore.

import napari

blobs = data.binary_blobs(length=128, volume_fraction=0.1, n_dim=3)  
viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(blobs.astype(float), name='blobs')
labeled = ndi.label(blobs)[0]  
viewer.add_labels(labeled, name='blob ID')  
```

> then, by clicking the 2D/3D button, you can rotate the image (the camera view of the image) with the mouse to see what it looks like from the side, back, or a different angle. To do this, click on the image and drag the cursor to a new position. This gives something like the following view: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then, by clicking the 2D/3D button to activate 3D rendering, you can use your mouse to rotate the image (the camera view of the image) to see what it looks like from the side, back, or a different angle. To do this, click on the image and drag the cursor to a new position. This gives something like the following view: 
```

import napari

blobs = data.binary_blobs(length=128, volume_fraction=0.1, n_dim=3)
viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(blobs.astype(float), name='blobs')
labeled = ndi.label(blobs)[0]
viewer.add_labels(labeled, name='blob ID')
```

then, by clicking the 2D/3D button, you can rotate the image (the camera view of the image) with the mouse to see what it looks like from the side, back, or a different angle. To do this, click on the image and drag the cursor to a new position. This gives something like the following view: 

![image: 3D_button](../assets/tutorials/3D_button.png)

and rotating the camera view with the mouse gives something like the following view:

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]  

# programmatically adjust the camera angle  
viewer.dims.ndisplay = 3
viewer.camera.zoom = 2
viewer.camera.angles = (3, 38, 53)
nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A rotated 3D view")
```

> <!-- This is commented out. ![image: Rotated image](../assets/tutorials/rotated-image.png) -->  

Reviewer 2: Why is this commented out? No image is appearing in the built docs. Perhaps we need a dedicated cell, like:
```
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]
 nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A 3D view of the blobs sample image.")
\```
```

Author: I did  not understand the way things are displayed in VS Code vs html.  I think I have this straightened out.

Reviewer 2: No luck on my end, no image. 
See: https://output.circle-artifacts.com/output/job/1ac9b288-f0c9-4f34-91a2-800abf53318c/artifacts/0/docs/_build/tutorials/fundamentals/viewer.html#d-3d-button

Reviewer 2: Ok, here the issue is that the code cell has 
```
:tags: [hide-input]  
```
This needs to be deleted.
Then the screenshot needs to be in it's own code cell with that tag.

like:
```
```{code-cell} python
 :tags: [hide-input]
nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A rotated 3D view")
```

* **Unlink Layers** - appears when layers are linked. It unlinks the layers so that changes to one of the layer's properties no longer result in the same changes to the previously linked layers. 
* **Select Linked Layers** - appears only when layers are linked. Selects all layers linked to a given layer.  

+++

## Changing the viewer theme

Currently, **napari** comes with `light`, `dark` themes for the viewer;  the default is `dark`. Additionally, there is the `system` virtual theme that will attempt to match the viewer theme (`light` or `dark`) to your system theme on macOS, Windows, and some Linux. To change the preferred theme used for all viewers you can use the **Preferences** menu item in the **File** or **napari** menu and then select the **Appearance** tab. You can also change the `theme` property of the *current* viewer by using the following code:

```{code-cell} python  
from skimage import data

import napari

viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(data.astronaut(), name='astronaut')

# change the viewer theme  
viewer.theme = 'light'
```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]  

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A napari viewer changed to light theme")

> ```

Reviewer 2: This screenshot isn't showing for me in the built docs, but again I notice the one above doesn't have the tag to hide output, so maybe it's that?
(it does show with live docs on napari.org)

Author: This one never did show.  The next time you see the viewer, it has a black background again.

viewer.camera.angles = (3, 38, 53)
nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A rotated 3D view")
```
![image: Rotated image](../assets/tutorials/rotated-image.png)  

> The third button rolls the dimensions that are currently displayed in the viewer. For example if you have a `ZYX` volume and are looking at the `YX` slice, this will then show you the `ZY` slice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The third button rolls the dimensions that are currently displayed in the viewer. For example if you have a `ZYX` volume and are looking at the `YX` slice, this will then show you the `ZY` slice. You can also right-click this button to re-order the dimensions by drag-and-drop.
```

Reviewer 2: Bump. This isn't very discoverable, so i think it's very important to add here.

The fourth button transposes the displayed dimensions.

> Then there is a grid button that toggles grid mode. When clicked it displays each layer of the image in its own tile. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then there is a grid button that toggles grid mode. When clicked it displays each layer of the image in its own tile. You can right-click this button to adjust the way the tiles are presented, such as the grid dimensions, the order of the layers in the tiles, and whether layers are overlayed in the tiles.
```

Reviewer 2: Bump, I think this is still important to add here because it's not very discoverable.

Finally, there is the `home` button. It resets the camera to its initial values.

### Status bar

At the very bottom of the GUI there is a status bar that contains useful updates and tips.

On the left side of the status bar there is a message about the position of the mouse and the values of any images or the indices of any points that are currently hovered over, depending on which layer is selected. When there are buttons in the layer controls panel, the status bar displays information about the layer controls button you are clicking. The buttons are not available for every layer type.  

The right side of the status bar contains some helpful tips depending on which layer and tools are currently selected.

> ## Right-click menu

Reviewer 2: I think it would be best to rearrange this section to match the way these items are presented in the menu?
<img width="221" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76622105/208297694-d1d41915-d8b0-4916-984a-393a62e04cf9.png">

Reviewer 2: Bump, any thoughts on this? the current ordering seems random?

Author: The options that appear on the right click menu depend on what type of layer is selected.  I could put these all in alphabetical order.  I don't want to break them out as to which options appear for which layers because so many of them would be repeated.  Some of the options still appear but are greyed out. Any advice you can give me on this will be appreciated.

Reviewer 2: Ah, you're right. Nevermind.

>  A context-sensitive menu is available when you right-click on any of the layers. The type of layer determines which options are available. The options that are not available for that layer are greyed out. It contains the following options: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 A context-sensitive menu is available when you right-click on any of the layers. The type of layer determines which options are available. Note that if you have multiple layers selected, the menu actions will affect all of the selected layers. The options that are not available for a layer are greyed out. It contains the following options: 
```

Reviewer 2: Bump. I think this isn't super obvious so worth being explicit about.

* **Duplicate Layer** - creates a second copy of the selected layer. Can be used on **Points**, **Shapes**, **Labels**, and **Image** layers. This is useful for testing your analysis on a copy instead of on the original image.
* **Convert to Labels** - converts an **Image** layer to a **Labels** layer. This is useful for converting a binary image segmentation map to a labels layer with each segmented object denoted by its own integer. Can also be used on a **Shapes** layer.  
* **Convert to Image** - converts a **Labels** layer into an **Image** layer. 
* **Toggle visibility** - hides or shows the selected layer.
* **Convert datatype** - converts an **Image** or **Labels** layer into int8, int16, int32, int64, uint8, uint16, uint32, or uint64 data types. The initial data type is the data type of the data itself.

> * **Make Projection** - can be used only on a stack.  It creates a new layer that is a projection of the layer stack with the characteristic the user selects.  More information about the types of projections is available [here](https://medium.com/@damiandn/an-intoduction-to-biological-image-processing-in-imagej-part-3-stacks-and-stack-projections-942aa789420f). The following projections are available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Make Projection** - can be used only on a layer with more than 2 dimensions, also known as a *stack*.  It creates a new layer that is a projection of the layer stack with the characteristic the user selects, reducing the number of dimensions by 1.  More information about the types of projections is available [here](https://medium.com/@damiandn/an-intoduction-to-biological-image-processing-in-imagej-part-3-stacks-and-stack-projections-942aa789420f). The following projections are available:
```

Author: Added.

   * **Min** - minimum intensity projection. Similar to the maximum intensity projection, except that the minimum pixel value is used for the projected image instead of the maximum pixel value.  
   * **Std** - the standard deviation projection. At each pixel position, the standard deviation of the pixel intensities through the stack is the assigned value of that pixel position. Positions with large differences in the pixel intensities through the stack appear brighter in this projection.  
   * **Sum** - the sum projection simply adds together all the pixel values in the stack for a given position. In this projection, the image is typically re-scaled to a 16-bit image, as the sum of all the pixel intensity values usually exceeds 255, which would result in a completely white 8-bit image.  
   * **Mean** - the mean projection is the average intensity projection.  It simply averages all the pixel values in the stacks to make the final projected image.  
   * **Median** - the median projection takes the median pixel intensity for the final projected image.   

> * **Split Stack** - if the stack is RGB, it splits the layer into 3 layers with red, green, and blue values in separate layers. Otherwise, it splits a single image layer of dimension 3 or more into a list of layers along the axis. This option takes a little time to execute. Properties will be changed as follows: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Split RGB** - if the image layer is an RGB image, it will be split into 3 new layers with red, green, and blue values in separate layers. 
* **Split Stack** - if an image layer is a stack (has 3 or more dimensions), it is split into a list of layers along the axis. This option takes a little time to execute. Properties will be changed as follows: 
```

    * All other properties, such as **Scale** and **Translate** will be propagated from the original stack.   
* **Merge to Stack** - combines a set of layers to a single-layer stack. The resulting layer stack will contain the layers with their original ordering in the layer list. Layers must be of the same type (e.g. An **Image** layer can be merged only with other **Image** layers.) and must have the same dimensionality.  (e.g. a 1024 x 1024 layer can only be merged with another 1024 x 1024 layer.)
* **Link Layers** - links the selected layers.  Once layers are linked, any action performed on one layer will be performed on all linked layers at the same time. The layer control panel will show _only_ when a single layer is selected. Changing properties with that layer's control panel will change properties in all of the linked layers.  
* **Unlink Layers** - appears when layers are linked. It unlinks the layers so that changes to one of the layer's properties no longer result in the same changes to the previously linked layers. 
* **Select Linked Layers** - appears only when layers are linked. Selects all layers linked to a given layer.  

 
## Changing the viewer theme

> Currently, **napari** comes with `light`, `dark`, and `system` themes.  The default is `dark`. To change the theme, go to **File**>**Preferences**>**Appearance**. You can also update the `theme` property of the viewer by using the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, **napari** comes with `light` and `dark` themes for the viewer;  the default is `dark`. Additionally, there is the `system` virtual theme that will attempt to match the viewer theme (`light` or `dark`) to your system theme on macOS, Windows, and some Linux. To change the theme, go to **File**>**Preferences**>**Appearance**. You can also update the `theme` property of the viewer by using the following code:
```

Author: Added.

viewer, image_layer = napari.imshow(data.astronaut(), name='astronaut')

# change the viewer theme

> viewer.theme = 'light'  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
viewer.theme = 'light'
```

```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [hide-input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

```

nbscreenshot(viewer, alt_text="A napari viewer changed to light theme")
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

# change the viewer theme back to dark (for the rest of tutorial)
viewer.theme = 'dark'
```

> Adding your own custom theme isn't too hard but requires creating your own color `palette` and rebuilding the icons. If people want more themes, we're happy to add them or you can look at our [contributing guidelines](../../developers/contributing) for more information about building the icons and add one yourself!  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also change the theme using the "Toggle theme" keyboard shortcut, by default `Command/Control+Shift+T`. Note that changing the theme using this shortcut will only change the *current* viewer theme. If you wish to make the change permanent for all viewers, make sure to change also your settings in the **Appearance** tab of the **Preferences**. 

Adding your own custom theme isn't too hard but requires creating your own color `palette` and rebuilding the icons. It's also possible for [plugins to contribute a theme](../../plugins/contributions.html#contributions-themes). If people want more themes, we're happy to add them or you can look at our [contributing guidelines](../../developers/contributing) for more information about building the icons and add one yourself!  
```

Updated for the new PR that was recently merged (see above).

Reviewer 2: Not sure I linked the plugin bit correctly...

Reviewer 2: Bump, updated for the new PR as above

</br>  

## Custom keybinding

> One of the promises of **napari** is to provide a beginner friendly environment for interactive analysis. For example, we want to enable workflows where people can interact with the GUI, say, click on the centers of some objects or paint over some regions and then perform custom analysis. As a first step towards enabling custom interactivity we've provided support to add your own custom keybindings to the `Viewer` or individual `Layer` objects such that when the corresponding key gets clicked, your custom function gets executed. Depending on which object you bind your key to, your function will either get access to the state of the entire `viewer` or `layer` object, such that when the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
napari provides a number of built-in keyboard shortcuts, which you can access and change in **Preferences**>**Shortcuts**. However, one of the promises of **napari** is to provide a beginner friendly environment for interactive analysis. For example, we want to enable workflows where people can interact with the GUI, say, click on the centers of some objects or paint over some regions and then perform custom analysis. As a first step towards enabling custom interactivity we've provided support to add your own *custom* keybindings to the `Viewer` or individual `Layer` objects such that when the corresponding key gets clicked, your custom function gets executed. Depending on which object you bind your key to, your function will either get access to the state of the entire `viewer` or `layer` object, such that when the
```

Author: Added.

    print([layer.name for layer in viewer.layers])
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```

    print('goodbye')
```

> ```{code-cell} python  :tags: [remove-cell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

```
